All the procedures and equipment in the world are ineffective without proper training.
Training is what builds competence and confidence, turning rules on a page into safe work habits.
OSHA recognizes that not everyone has the same level of expertise, so it makes a crucial distinction between two types
of workers: qualified and unqualified persons.
A 'Qualified Person' is someone who has been specifically trained to understand the operation of electrical equipment and, more importantly,
the hazards associated with it.
They know how to de-energize circuits, how to perform Lockout/Tagout, how to select the right PPE, and how to work
safely around energized components when necessary.
They have proven they can recognize and avoid the dangers.
An 'Unqualified Person,' by contrast, is anyone who has not had this specialized training.
This doesn't mean they are unskilled in their own job, only that they are not trained to deal with electrical
hazards.
They should not be performing electrical work and must stay outside of established safety boundaries around exposed live parts.
To maintain a safe workforce, training must be an ongoing process.
'Initial Training' is given to all new employees to provide them with the foundational safety knowledge they need before they
even start their job.
'Task-Specific Training' is provided when a worker is assigned a new or particularly hazardous task, ensuring they are prepared for
its unique risks.
And 'Refresher Training' is conducted at regular intervals, like once a year, to reinforce key concepts and update everyone on
any changes to procedures or regulations.
A commitment to continuous training is a commitment to everyone's safety.